Fluid Mechanics and Aerodynamics Laboratory
-------------------------------------------

:date: 2022-08-23 17:47
:modified: 2022-08-23 17:47

|

.. image:: {static}/images/logo.png
   :name: logo-lab
   :width: 70%
   :alt: labmfa logo
   :align: center

|

With more than 30 years existence, Fluid Mechanics and Aerodynamics
Laboratory (**LabMFA**) is one of the most consolidated laboratory of
the Department of Mechanical Engineering with strong research activity
providing scientific and technological advances in the areas of fluid
mechanics, aerodynamics, wind energy and atmospheric sciences and
computational fluid dynamics (**CFD**). The working space comprises
3-floor laboratory including 300m2 of building area with large meeting
room for 12 seated attendees with 50'' TV and white board, 20-seat
lecture room with projector, 2 student offices with 12 desk total capacity,
permanent staff room and full equipped atelier/machinery repair shop, in
addition to 200m2 of open space area comprising 2 **wind tunnels** with
balance and instrumentation for technical research and education.

**LabMFA** members have been orienting their activities towards the
training of human resources and the development of new knowledge that
provide scientific and technological advances in the areas of fluid
mechanics, aerodynamics, wind energy and atmospheric sciences. The
training of human resources has been carried out at all levels, from
undergrad scientific research programs, to graduate programs, with
master's and doctoral students, including post-doctorate researchers. 

The following image is a photography of the building showing the 3-floor
instalations as well as the open area where the wind tunnels are
located.

.. image:: {static}/images/building.jpg
   :name: building
   :width: 52%
   :alt: laboratory building

