About the lab
-------------

:date: 2022-08-23 17:47
:modified: 2022-08-23 17:47
:slug: about

The Laboratory of Fluid Mechanics and Aerodynamics (LabMFA) is one of
the oldest laboratories of DEM/PEM at Politécnica/COPPE – UFRJ. Over
approximately three decades of existence, LABMFA members have been
orienting their activities towards the training of human resources and
the development of new knowledge that provide scientific and
technological advances in the areas of fluid mechanics, aerodynamics,
wind energy and atmospheric sciences. The training of human resources
has been carried out at all levels, from scientific initiation programs,
with undergraduate students, to postgraduate programs, with master's and
doctoral students.

In undergraduate research programs, undergraduate students actively
participate in all activities and usually work closely with a student or
group of graduate students. Graduate programs, in turn, are always
associated with scientific and technological research and development
activities, and the students involved come not only from UFRJ itself,
but also from other universities in Brazil and other countries in South
America. South.

LabMFA also has a tradition of receiving recently graduated doctors and,
mainly, professors from other universities, including those from abroad.
In order to develop scientific and technological cooperation projects,
formal and informal agreements are maintained with renowned institutions
in the country and abroad. In the last decade, scientific cooperation
agreements were signed in the areas of fluid mechanics and aerodynamics
involving LABMFA and two renowned English universities, Imperial College
and the University of Bristol, in addition to an informal cooperation
with Yokohama National University, in Japan. In the area of
Wind Energy, a technological cooperation program between
LABMFA and the CDG – Carl Duisberg Gesellschaft e.V., a German
Foundation linked to the German Ministry of Economic Cooperation and
Development, ended recently. More recently, LAbMFA has established a
cooperation with the Petroleum Engineering Laboratory at the University
of Tulsa, OK, USA, in the area of two-phase flow in
pipelines.

In general terms, the laboratory accommodates three research projects.
The first, called “Aerodynamics”, is the biggest one, as it has been the
Coordinator's main line of research over the years and involves most of
the work team. This sub-project aims to study problems commonly
encountered in fluid mechanics and aerodynamics, where two-dimensional,
incompressible, transient, and high Reynolds number flows develop around
blunt bodies and aerodynamic bodies. For this purpose, a numerical
method called Discrete Vortex Method is used, and, when necessary, wind
tunnel experiments are used to support the creation of numerical models
or to corroborate calculated numerical results. This type of study finds
motivation in real problems of various engineering, such as mechanical
engineering (flow around blunt bodies, heat exchanger banks,
turbomachinery blades), aeronautics (airfoils of aircraft) and naval
(risers and airframe structures). offshore platforms), among others.

The second sub-project, called “Atmospheric Sciences”, involves the
study of the Atmospheric Boundary Layer. Here, turbulence models are
used in the conservation equations of mass, momentum and energy for
micro or mesoscale aiming to carry out an analytical,
analytical-numerical or numerical study of the turbulent flow of the
atmospheric boundary layer. The results obtained are compared to
experimental data from other authors collected in field measurement
campaigns or to analytical or numerical results available in the
literature. The problem is also analyzed numerically, using commercial
computer codes, such as RAMS – Regional Atmospheric Modeling System.

The second sub-project, called “Wind Energy”, uses models of orography,
roughness, obstacles and microscale models for turbulent flow over
complex terrains to treat wind data collected by anemometers installed
in anemometric towers of several Brazilian institutions (INMET, INPE ,
CEPEL, Marinha, Aeronáutica, INFRAERO, DEPV etc.) and evaluate the wind
potential of a region. The objective is to carry out a forecast of the
wind regime that allows the assessment of the wind potential of a
region. For these works, a methodology based on the models of the WAsP
computer program (Wind Atlas Analysis and Application Program) is used
for the analysis of wind data in complex terrain regions. Also as
applications within the scope of this sub-project, one can cite the
calculation of the flow over profiles (airfoils) of wind turbine blades,
which is also included in sub-project I. Numerical studies of the flow
in the Boundary Layer

